RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) — instead of relying only on what an LLM learned during training, it retrieves relevant chunks 
from your own documents (via a vector database) and feeds them to the model as context before it answers.

This lets the model answer questions using your specific data (notes, docs, PDFs) accurately, without needing to retrain or fine-tune the 
model itself — like what we just built with your interview files + Llama3 + ChromaDB.

What's happening:

• llama3 (the model) is frozen — same weights every time, doesn't change based on your conversations

• Your docs/ folder gets re-read and re-embedded only when you explicitly run python rag.py ingest

• Each time you ask a question, it does a fresh search through your existing embeddings — it's not accumulating new knowledge or getting "smarter" from past questions

Analogy for your context: think of it like Grafana querying Prometheus — Prometheus doesn't "learn" from queries, it just stores data and answers questions against it. Same here: Chroma stores your document embeddings, Llama3 just retrieves + summarizes. No training happens during use.

For it to actually "learn" new information, you'd need to:

1. Add new files to docs/

2. Manually re-run:
   python rag.py ingest

----
docs/ folder (txt, md, pdf, docx)
Ingested once via: python rag.py ingest
            │
            ▼
ChromaDB vector store
Stores 1760 embedded chunks
            ▲
            │
            ▼
Your question
"Summarize pipeline stages"
            │
            ▼
Embed question
nomic-embed-text
            │
            ▼
Retrieve + keyword boost
Top matches, capped per file
            │
            ▼
Llama3 (Ollama)
Answers using retrieved context
            │
            ▼
Answer + sources shown to you

That's the full flow: your documents get ingested once into ChromaDB, and every time you ask a question, it gets embedded, matched against your stored chunks (with the keyword-boost fix for code/config files), and the retrieved context gets handed to Llama3 to generate a grounded answer.
                                                                                                                                                               
----
in this normal question it not answering it only telling relavent to docs?
                                                                                                                                                               
Right — that's by design, not a bug. Look at the prompt we wrote in rag.py:

prompt = f"""Answer the question using ONLY the context below. If the answer isn't in the context, say so.

Your options:
                                                                                                                                                               
1. For general chat (no document grounding):
                                                                                                                                                               
 ollama run llama3
                                                                                                                                                               
This is plain Llama3, answers anything using its own training knowledge — no RAG involved.
                                                                                                                                                               
  -----------------------
does llama3 learn by itself?

No — same as before, Llama3 itself never learns or updates on its own. Its weights are frozen at whatever Meta trained it on.

• Every time you run `ollama run llama3` or use it in your RAG script, you get the exact same base model — no memory of past conversations, no self-updating

• Ollama doesn't retrain it in the background

• The only way it "gains" new knowledge is if you explicitly fine-tune it on new data (a separate, deliberate training process) — which isn't happening in your current setup

So right now: fully static model, zero self-learning, zero drift over time. Same behavior today as a year from now, unless you manually update to a newer model version.
                                                                                                                                                               
-----------------------------------------------

so how you leaning?

Good question — I don't "learn" during our conversation either, same limitation applies to me.

How I actually got here (training, not learning-on-the-fly):

1. Pre-training — Anthropic trained me on a massive dataset (text from books, websites, code, etc.) up to a fixed cutoff date, using enormous compute (thousands of GPUs, weeks/months of training). This is where I learned language patterns, facts, reasoning, coding, etc.

2. Fine-tuning / RLHF (Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback) — After pre-training, Anthropic further trained me using human feedback to be more helpful, honest, and safe — adjusting my responses based on what humans rated as good vs bad answers.

3. Deployment — After that, my weights are frozen. Every conversation I have, including this one, uses the exact same static model. I'm not updating myself based on what you or anyone else tells me right now.

So what about the "memory" I sometimes have of past conversations?

That's not me learning — it's a separate retrieval system, conceptually similar to the RAG you just built:

• Past conversation summaries get stored somewhere

• When you start a new chat, relevant bits get pulled in and placed into my context window

• I use that as reference material, same way your `rag.py` script feeds Llama3 your documents

The honest parallel to what you just built: Anthropic's "memory" feature is essentially RAG at a much larger, more polished scale — I don't retrain, I get fed context. Same principle, bigger infrastructure.

So no self-learning happening on my end either — just a much bigger, more expensive version of the exact pipeline you built today.
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                               
